docs/about.md, before:

# About

*Sc4pac* is an open-source cross-platform package manager for SimCity 4 plugins.

- [STEX release](https://community.simtropolis.com/files/file/36700-sc4pac-mod-manager/) at Simtropolis

- Package metadata repository: https://github.com/memo33/sc4pac <!-- https://icons.getbootstrap.com/icons/github/ MIT license --><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" aria-hidden="true" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-github" viewBox="0 0 16 16"><path d="M8 0C3.58 0 0 3.58 0 8c0 3.54 2.29 6.53 5.47 7.59.4.07.55-.17.55-.38 0-.19-.01-.82-.01-1.49-2.01.37-2.53-.49-2.69-.94-.09-.23-.48-.94-.82-1.13-.28-.15-.68-.52-.01-.53.63-.01 1.08.58 1.23.82.72 1.21 1.87.87 2.33.66.07-.52.28-.87.51-1.07-1.78-.2-3.64-.89-3.64-3.95 0-.87.31-1.59.82-2.15-.08-.2-.36-1.02.08-2.12 0 0 .67-.21 2.2.82.64-.18 1.32-.27 2-.27s1.36.09 2 .27c1.53-1.04 2.2-.82 2.2-.82.44 1.1.16 1.92.08 2.12.51.56.82 1.27.82 2.15 0 3.07-1.87 3.75-3.65 3.95.29.25.54.73.54 1.48 0 1.07-.01 1.93-.01 2.2 0 .21.15.46.55.38A8.01 8.01 0 0 0 16 8c0-4.42-3.58-8-8-8"/></svg>

- Program source code: https://github.com/memo33/sc4pac-tools <!-- https://icons.getbootstrap.com/icons/github/ MIT license --><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" aria-hidden="true" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-github" viewBox="0 0 16 16"><path d="M8 0C3.58 0 0 3.58 0 8c0 3.54 2.29 6.53 5.47 7.59.4.07.55-.17.55-.38 0-.19-.01-.82-.01-1.49-2.01.37-2.53-.49-2.69-.94-.09-.23-.48-.94-.82-1.13-.28-.15-.68-.52-.01-.53.63-.01 1.08.58 1.23.82.72 1.21 1.87.87 2.33.66.07-.52.28-.87.51-1.07-1.78-.2-3.64-.89-3.64-3.95 0-.87.31-1.59.82-2.15-.08-.2-.36-1.02.08-2.12 0 0 .67-.21 2.2.82.64-.18 1.32-.27 2-.27s1.36.09 2 .27c1.53-1.04 2.2-.82 2.2-.82.44 1.1.16 1.92.08 2.12.51.56.82 1.27.82 2.15 0 3.07-1.87 3.75-3.65 3.95.29.25.54.73.54 1.48 0 1.07-.01 1.93-.01 2.2 0 .21.15.46.55.38A8.01 8.01 0 0 0 16 8c0-4.42-3.58-8-8-8"/></svg>

- GUI development: https://github.com/memo33/sc4pac-gui <!-- https://icons.getbootstrap.com/icons/github/ MIT license --><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" aria-hidden="true" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-github" viewBox="0 0 16 16"><path d="M8 0C3.58 0 0 3.58 0 8c0 3.54 2.29 6.53 5.47 7.59.4.07.55-.17.55-.38 0-.19-.01-.82-.01-1.49-2.01.37-2.53-.49-2.69-.94-.09-.23-.48-.94-.82-1.13-.28-.15-.68-.52-.01-.53.63-.01 1.08.58 1.23.82.72 1.21 1.87.87 2.33.66.07-.52.28-.87.51-1.07-1.78-.2-3.64-.89-3.64-3.95 0-.87.31-1.59.82-2.15-.08-.2-.36-1.02.08-2.12 0 0 .67-.21 2.2.82.64-.18 1.32-.27 2-.27s1.36.09 2 .27c1.53-1.04 2.2-.82 2.2-.82.44 1.1.16 1.92.08 2.12.51.56.82 1.27.82 2.15 0 3.07-1.87 3.75-3.65 3.95.29.25.54.73.54 1.48 0 1.07-.01 1.93-.01 2.2 0 .21.15.46.55.38A8.01 8.01 0 0 0 16 8c0-4.42-3.58-8-8-8"/></svg>

Files are downloaded directly from file exchange sites
such as [Simtropolis](https://simtropolis.com/),
[SC4Evermore](https://www.sc4evermore.com/),
[ToutSimCities](https://www.toutsimcities.com/)
and [Hide and Seek!](http://hide-inoki.com/).

There is also a [Simtropolis discussion thread](https://community.simtropolis.com/forums/topic/762677-sc4pac-lets-write-our-own-package-manager/)
and a [Discord channel](https://discord.com/channels/383313438065033228/1176574445188550656) <!-- https://icons.getbootstrap.com/icons/discord/ MIT license --><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" aria-hidden="true" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-discord" viewBox="0 0 16 16"><path d="M13.545 2.907a13.2 13.2 0 0 0-3.257-1.011.05.05 0 0 0-.052.025c-.141.25-.297.577-.406.833a12.2 12.2 0 0 0-3.658 0 8 8 0 0 0-.412-.833.05.05 0 0 0-.052-.025c-1.125.194-2.22.534-3.257 1.011a.04.04 0 0 0-.021.018C.356 6.024-.213 9.047.066 12.032q.003.022.021.037a13.3 13.3 0 0 0 3.995 2.02.05.05 0 0 0 .056-.019q.463-.63.818-1.329a.05.05 0 0 0-.01-.059l-.018-.011a9 9 0 0 1-1.248-.595.05.05 0 0 1-.02-.066l.015-.019q.127-.095.248-.195a.05.05 0 0 1 .051-.007c2.619 1.196 5.454 1.196 8.041 0a.05.05 0 0 1 .053.007q.121.1.248.195a.05.05 0 0 1-.004.085 8 8 0 0 1-1.249.594.05.05 0 0 0-.03.03.05.05 0 0 0 .003.041c.24.465.515.909.817 1.329a.05.05 0 0 0 .056.019 13.2 13.2 0 0 0 4.001-2.02.05.05 0 0 0 .021-.037c.334-3.451-.559-6.449-2.366-9.106a.03.03 0 0 0-.02-.019m-8.198 7.307c-.789 0-1.438-.724-1.438-1.612s.637-1.613 1.438-1.613c.807 0 1.45.73 1.438 1.613 0 .888-.637 1.612-1.438 1.612m5.316 0c-.788 0-1.438-.724-1.438-1.612s.637-1.613 1.438-1.613c.807 0 1.451.73 1.438 1.613 0 .888-.631 1.612-1.438 1.612"/></svg>.

### Additional resources

- [Simtropolis channel](https://github.com/sebamarynissen/simtropolis-channel) <!-- https://icons.getbootstrap.com/icons/github/ MIT license --><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" aria-hidden="true" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-github" viewBox="0 0 16 16"><path d="M8 0C3.58 0 0 3.58 0 8c0 3.54 2.29 6.53 5.47 7.59.4.07.55-.17.55-.38 0-.19-.01-.82-.01-1.49-2.01.37-2.53-.49-2.69-.94-.09-.23-.48-.94-.82-1.13-.28-.15-.68-.52-.01-.53.63-.01 1.08.58 1.23.82.72 1.21 1.87.87 2.33.66.07-.52.28-.87.51-1.07-1.78-.2-3.64-.89-3.64-3.95 0-.87.31-1.59.82-2.15-.08-.2-.36-1.02.08-2.12 0 0 .67-.21 2.2.82.64-.18 1.32-.27 2-.27s1.36.09 2 .27c1.53-1.04 2.2-.82 2.2-.82.44 1.1.16 1.92.08 2.12.51.56.82 1.27.82 2.15 0 3.07-1.87 3.75-3.65 3.95.29.25.54.73.54 1.48 0 1.07-.01 1.93-.01 2.2 0 .21.15.46.55.38A8.01 8.01 0 0 0 16 8c0-4.42-3.58-8-8-8"/></svg>
  contains many packages for community-created STEX content

- [**Zasco**'s sc4pac channel](https://github.com/Zasco/sc4pac-channel) <!-- https://icons.getbootstrap.com/icons/github/ MIT license --><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" aria-hidden="true" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-github" viewBox="0 0 16 16"><path d="M8 0C3.58 0 0 3.58 0 8c0 3.54 2.29 6.53 5.47 7.59.4.07.55-.17.55-.38 0-.19-.01-.82-.01-1.49-2.01.37-2.53-.49-2.69-.94-.09-.23-.48-.94-.82-1.13-.28-.15-.68-.52-.01-.53.63-.01 1.08.58 1.23.82.72 1.21 1.87.87 2.33.66.07-.52.28-.87.51-1.07-1.78-.2-3.64-.89-3.64-3.95 0-.87.31-1.59.82-2.15-.08-.2-.36-1.02.08-2.12 0 0 .67-.21 2.2.82.64-.18 1.32-.27 2-.27s1.36.09 2 .27c1.53-1.04 2.2-.82 2.2-.82.44 1.1.16 1.92.08 2.12.51.56.82 1.27.82 2.15 0 3.07-1.87 3.75-3.65 3.95.29.25.54.73.54 1.48 0 1.07-.01 1.93-.01 2.2 0 .21.15.46.55.38A8.01 8.01 0 0 0 16 8c0-4.42-3.58-8-8-8"/></svg>
  contains many additional packages not found in the default channel

- [YAML editor for sc4pac](https://github.com/noah-severyn/YamlEditorForSc4pac) <!-- https://icons.getbootstrap.com/icons/github/ MIT license --><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" aria-hidden="true" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-github" viewBox="0 0 16 16"><path d="M8 0C3.58 0 0 3.58 0 8c0 3.54 2.29 6.53 5.47 7.59.4.07.55-.17.55-.38 0-.19-.01-.82-.01-1.49-2.01.37-2.53-.49-2.69-.94-.09-.23-.48-.94-.82-1.13-.28-.15-.68-.52-.01-.53.63-.01 1.08.58 1.23.82.72 1.21 1.87.87 2.33.66.07-.52.28-.87.51-1.07-1.78-.2-3.64-.89-3.64-3.95 0-.87.31-1.59.82-2.15-.08-.2-.36-1.02.08-2.12 0 0 .67-.21 2.2.82.64-.18 1.32-.27 2-.27s1.36.09 2 .27c1.53-1.04 2.2-.82 2.2-.82.44 1.1.16 1.92.08 2.12.51.56.82 1.27.82 2.15 0 3.07-1.87 3.75-3.65 3.95.29.25.54.73.54 1.48 0 1.07-.01 1.93-.01 2.2 0 .21.15.46.55.38A8.01 8.01 0 0 0 16 8c0-4.42-3.58-8-8-8"/></svg>
  by **nos.17**
  for interactively creating metadata files


---
Next up: [Highlights](packages.md)

Commit message:

add SC4E channel to About section

docs/about.md, after:

# About

*Sc4pac* is an open-source cross-platform package manager for SimCity 4 plugins.

- [STEX release](https://community.simtropolis.com/files/file/36700-sc4pac-mod-manager/) at Simtropolis

- Package metadata repository (Main channel): https://github.com/memo33/sc4pac <!-- https://icons.getbootstrap.com/icons/github/ MIT license --><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" aria-hidden="true" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-github" viewBox="0 0 16 16"><path d="M8 0C3.58 0 0 3.58 0 8c0 3.54 2.29 6.53 5.47 7.59.4.07.55-.17.55-.38 0-.19-.01-.82-.01-1.49-2.01.37-2.53-.49-2.69-.94-.09-.23-.48-.94-.82-1.13-.28-.15-.68-.52-.01-.53.63-.01 1.08.58 1.23.82.72 1.21 1.87.87 2.33.66.07-.52.28-.87.51-1.07-1.78-.2-3.64-.89-3.64-3.95 0-.87.31-1.59.82-2.15-.08-.2-.36-1.02.08-2.12 0 0 .67-.21 2.2.82.64-.18 1.32-.27 2-.27s1.36.09 2 .27c1.53-1.04 2.2-.82 2.2-.82.44 1.1.16 1.92.08 2.12.51.56.82 1.27.82 2.15 0 3.07-1.87 3.75-3.65 3.95.29.25.54.73.54 1.48 0 1.07-.01 1.93-.01 2.2 0 .21.15.46.55.38A8.01 8.01 0 0 0 16 8c0-4.42-3.58-8-8-8"/></svg>

- Program source code: https://github.com/memo33/sc4pac-tools <!-- https://icons.getbootstrap.com/icons/github/ MIT license --><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" aria-hidden="true" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-github" viewBox="0 0 16 16"><path d="M8 0C3.58 0 0 3.58 0 8c0 3.54 2.29 6.53 5.47 7.59.4.07.55-.17.55-.38 0-.19-.01-.82-.01-1.49-2.01.37-2.53-.49-2.69-.94-.09-.23-.48-.94-.82-1.13-.28-.15-.68-.52-.01-.53.63-.01 1.08.58 1.23.82.72 1.21 1.87.87 2.33.66.07-.52.28-.87.51-1.07-1.78-.2-3.64-.89-3.64-3.95 0-.87.31-1.59.82-2.15-.08-.2-.36-1.02.08-2.12 0 0 .67-.21 2.2.82.64-.18 1.32-.27 2-.27s1.36.09 2 .27c1.53-1.04 2.2-.82 2.2-.82.44 1.1.16 1.92.08 2.12.51.56.82 1.27.82 2.15 0 3.07-1.87 3.75-3.65 3.95.29.25.54.73.54 1.48 0 1.07-.01 1.93-.01 2.2 0 .21.15.46.55.38A8.01 8.01 0 0 0 16 8c0-4.42-3.58-8-8-8"/></svg>

- GUI development: https://github.com/memo33/sc4pac-gui <!-- https://icons.getbootstrap.com/icons/github/ MIT license --><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" aria-hidden="true" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-github" viewBox="0 0 16 16"><path d="M8 0C3.58 0 0 3.58 0 8c0 3.54 2.29 6.53 5.47 7.59.4.07.55-.17.55-.38 0-.19-.01-.82-.01-1.49-2.01.37-2.53-.49-2.69-.94-.09-.23-.48-.94-.82-1.13-.28-.15-.68-.52-.01-.53.63-.01 1.08.58 1.23.82.72 1.21 1.87.87 2.33.66.07-.52.28-.87.51-1.07-1.78-.2-3.64-.89-3.64-3.95 0-.87.31-1.59.82-2.15-.08-.2-.36-1.02.08-2.12 0 0 .67-.21 2.2.82.64-.18 1.32-.27 2-.27s1.36.09 2 .27c1.53-1.04 2.2-.82 2.2-.82.44 1.1.16 1.92.08 2.12.51.56.82 1.27.82 2.15 0 3.07-1.87 3.75-3.65 3.95.29.25.54.73.54 1.48 0 1.07-.01 1.93-.01 2.2 0 .21.15.46.55.38A8.01 8.01 0 0 0 16 8c0-4.42-3.58-8-8-8"/></svg>

Files are downloaded directly from file exchange sites
such as [Simtropolis](https://simtropolis.com/),
[SC4Evermore](https://www.sc4evermore.com/),
[ToutSimCities](https://www.toutsimcities.com/)
and [Hide and Seek!](http://hide-inoki.com/).

There is also a [Simtropolis discussion thread](https://community.simtropolis.com/forums/topic/762677-sc4pac-lets-write-our-own-package-manager/)
and a [Discord channel](https://discord.com/channels/383313438065033228/1176574445188550656) <!-- https://icons.getbootstrap.com/icons/discord/ MIT license --><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" aria-hidden="true" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-discord" viewBox="0 0 16 16"><path d="M13.545 2.907a13.2 13.2 0 0 0-3.257-1.011.05.05 0 0 0-.052.025c-.141.25-.297.577-.406.833a12.2 12.2 0 0 0-3.658 0 8 8 0 0 0-.412-.833.05.05 0 0 0-.052-.025c-1.125.194-2.22.534-3.257 1.011a.04.04 0 0 0-.021.018C.356 6.024-.213 9.047.066 12.032q.003.022.021.037a13.3 13.3 0 0 0 3.995 2.02.05.05 0 0 0 .056-.019q.463-.63.818-1.329a.05.05 0 0 0-.01-.059l-.018-.011a9 9 0 0 1-1.248-.595.05.05 0 0 1-.02-.066l.015-.019q.127-.095.248-.195a.05.05 0 0 1 .051-.007c2.619 1.196 5.454 1.196 8.041 0a.05.05 0 0 1 .053.007q.121.1.248.195a.05.05 0 0 1-.004.085 8 8 0 0 1-1.249.594.05.05 0 0 0-.03.03.05.05 0 0 0 .003.041c.24.465.515.909.817 1.329a.05.05 0 0 0 .056.019 13.2 13.2 0 0 0 4.001-2.02.05.05 0 0 0 .021-.037c.334-3.451-.559-6.449-2.366-9.106a.03.03 0 0 0-.02-.019m-8.198 7.307c-.789 0-1.438-.724-1.438-1.612s.637-1.613 1.438-1.613c.807 0 1.45.73 1.438 1.613 0 .888-.637 1.612-1.438 1.612m5.316 0c-.788 0-1.438-.724-1.438-1.612s.637-1.613 1.438-1.613c.807 0 1.451.73 1.438 1.613 0 .888-.631 1.612-1.438 1.612"/></svg>.

### Additional resources

- [Simtropolis channel](https://github.com/sebamarynissen/simtropolis-channel) <!-- https://icons.getbootstrap.com/icons/github/ MIT license --><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" aria-hidden="true" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-github" viewBox="0 0 16 16"><path d="M8 0C3.58 0 0 3.58 0 8c0 3.54 2.29 6.53 5.47 7.59.4.07.55-.17.55-.38 0-.19-.01-.82-.01-1.49-2.01.37-2.53-.49-2.69-.94-.09-.23-.48-.94-.82-1.13-.28-.15-.68-.52-.01-.53.63-.01 1.08.58 1.23.82.72 1.21 1.87.87 2.33.66.07-.52.28-.87.51-1.07-1.78-.2-3.64-.89-3.64-3.95 0-.87.31-1.59.82-2.15-.08-.2-.36-1.02.08-2.12 0 0 .67-.21 2.2.82.64-.18 1.32-.27 2-.27s1.36.09 2 .27c1.53-1.04 2.2-.82 2.2-.82.44 1.1.16 1.92.08 2.12.51.56.82 1.27.82 2.15 0 3.07-1.87 3.75-3.65 3.95.29.25.54.73.54 1.48 0 1.07-.01 1.93-.01 2.2 0 .21.15.46.55.38A8.01 8.01 0 0 0 16 8c0-4.42-3.58-8-8-8"/></svg>
  contains many packages for community-created STEX content
  (enabled by default)

- [SC4Evermore channel](https://github.com/SC4Evermore/sc4pac-channel) <!-- https://icons.getbootstrap.com/icons/github/ MIT license --><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" aria-hidden="true" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-github" viewBox="0 0 16 16"><path d="M8 0C3.58 0 0 3.58 0 8c0 3.54 2.29 6.53 5.47 7.59.4.07.55-.17.55-.38 0-.19-.01-.82-.01-1.49-2.01.37-2.53-.49-2.69-.94-.09-.23-.48-.94-.82-1.13-.28-.15-.68-.52-.01-.53.63-.01 1.08.58 1.23.82.72 1.21 1.87.87 2.33.66.07-.52.28-.87.51-1.07-1.78-.2-3.64-.89-3.64-3.95 0-.87.31-1.59.82-2.15-.08-.2-.36-1.02.08-2.12 0 0 .67-.21 2.2.82.64-.18 1.32-.27 2-.27s1.36.09 2 .27c1.53-1.04 2.2-.82 2.2-.82.44 1.1.16 1.92.08 2.12.51.56.82 1.27.82 2.15 0 3.07-1.87 3.75-3.65 3.95.29.25.54.73.54 1.48 0 1.07-.01 1.93-.01 2.2 0 .21.15.46.55.38A8.01 8.01 0 0 0 16 8c0-4.42-3.58-8-8-8"/></svg>
  for additional content from SC4Evermore.
  To enable, add this URL to your Channels:
  ```
  https://sc4evermore.github.io/sc4pac-channel/channel/
  ```

- [**Zasco**'s sc4pac channel](https://github.com/Zasco/sc4pac-channel) <!-- https://icons.getbootstrap.com/icons/github/ MIT license --><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" aria-hidden="true" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-github" viewBox="0 0 16 16"><path d="M8 0C3.58 0 0 3.58 0 8c0 3.54 2.29 6.53 5.47 7.59.4.07.55-.17.55-.38 0-.19-.01-.82-.01-1.49-2.01.37-2.53-.49-2.69-.94-.09-.23-.48-.94-.82-1.13-.28-.15-.68-.52-.01-.53.63-.01 1.08.58 1.23.82.72 1.21 1.87.87 2.33.66.07-.52.28-.87.51-1.07-1.78-.2-3.64-.89-3.64-3.95 0-.87.31-1.59.82-2.15-.08-.2-.36-1.02.08-2.12 0 0 .67-.21 2.2.82.64-.18 1.32-.27 2-.27s1.36.09 2 .27c1.53-1.04 2.2-.82 2.2-.82.44 1.1.16 1.92.08 2.12.51.56.82 1.27.82 2.15 0 3.07-1.87 3.75-3.65 3.95.29.25.54.73.54 1.48 0 1.07-.01 1.93-.01 2.2 0 .21.15.46.55.38A8.01 8.01 0 0 0 16 8c0-4.42-3.58-8-8-8"/></svg>
  contains many additional packages not found in the default channel

- [YAML editor for sc4pac](https://github.com/noah-severyn/YamlEditorForSc4pac) <!-- https://icons.getbootstrap.com/icons/github/ MIT license --><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" aria-hidden="true" width="16" height="16" fill="currentColor" class="bi bi-github" viewBox="0 0 16 16"><path d="M8 0C3.58 0 0 3.58 0 8c0 3.54 2.29 6.53 5.47 7.59.4.07.55-.17.55-.38 0-.19-.01-.82-.01-1.49-2.01.37-2.53-.49-2.69-.94-.09-.23-.48-.94-.82-1.13-.28-.15-.68-.52-.01-.53.63-.01 1.08.58 1.23.82.72 1.21 1.87.87 2.33.66.07-.52.28-.87.51-1.07-1.78-.2-3.64-.89-3.64-3.95 0-.87.31-1.59.82-2.15-.08-.2-.36-1.02.08-2.12 0 0 .67-.21 2.2.82.64-.18 1.32-.27 2-.27s1.36.09 2 .27c1.53-1.04 2.2-.82 2.2-.82.44 1.1.16 1.92.08 2.12.51.56.82 1.27.82 2.15 0 3.07-1.87 3.75-3.65 3.95.29.25.54.73.54 1.48 0 1.07-.01 1.93-.01 2.2 0 .21.15.46.55.38A8.01 8.01 0 0 0 16 8c0-4.42-3.58-8-8-8"/></svg>
  by **nos.17**
  for interactively creating metadata files


---
Next up: [Highlights](packages.md)
